Orcs are a race of humanoids in [[Anchara]]. They traditionally live live a nomadic lifestyle. Orcs originate from [[Fierchland]] and [[Qiri'baq]].

Orcs are a hardened and ferocious people that live close to their land. They generally live as hunter-gatherers, so they have few (if any) real cities. This close relationship with the land has lead to a strong druidic bent among orcs, with few clerics among them and no arcane magic-users. Their nomadic nature often extends to seafaring. Many orcs speak out a living whaling or hunting and their primary trade with other nations is whale oil and other sea goods.

There's little, if any, central authority among the orcs. Generally knowledge is passed down from parent to child. Most maps of the region are personal maps, either hand draw by the user or their family, specially for what that orc needs it for.

Throughout Anchara, orcs have a long history of discrimination and persecution. The [[Iron Consortium]] has been openly at war with orcs for hundreds of years, though that has largely been a stalemate. The Consortium heavily propagandizes against orcs as the enemies of civilization and kill orcs on sight within their territories. The [[Anachreon (nation)|Anachreon]] also have an adversarial relationship with orcs, but don't come into conflict as often because of the geographical distance between them. The [[Vidanya]] dislike orcs, but not as much as the other nations. [[Mystara|Mystarans]] and the [[Kithenir]] have a good relationship thanks to a long history of trade. The orc language even has its roots in the [[Thalassian Coast|Thalassian]] language.