Hazelmere is a rock gnome archaeologist and scholar from the [[Anachreon (nation)|Anachreon]]. He was a core member of the [[Arcaneum]] research team studying the [[Izuri Gate System]] and is travelling with us to discover what they are and how they work. 

Hazelmere was born to Bolren and Lamara in [[Leovolan]], the ancestral home of the rock gnomes. Seven months after his birth, his parents left the city to escape the industrial lower class of the and moved with him to [[Wicksbend]].

Growing up in an Anachreon city afforded Hazelmere an opportunity to receive a childhood education at Wickebend's youth academy. During this time he befriended [[Ronald Daeclan]], a human from a minor noble family in the city. Between Hazelmere's success in academics and the patronage of the [[Daeclan Family|Daeclan family]], he was afforded a place into the mages academy in the city at the age of 10.

Hazelmere met many elves growing up in Wicksbend, with it being the closest Anachreon city to the [[Vidanya|Vidanyan]] border at the time. He became friends with [[Lissandra]], a young elven woman that traveled with the trade caravans through the city. She taught him the basics of the el

Hazelmere's mentor at the academy was [[Erik Skjoldson]], a cultural exchange professor from [[Skjoldhelm]]. Hazelmere studied under him for eight years before Professor Skjoldson was given a teaching position at the [[Arcaneum]]. Hazelmere gained his love of archaemagology from him.

When Hazelmere was 19, a year before he would finish at the academy, the Vidanya attacked Wicksbend. Hazelmere was expected to help with the preparations, but wasn't allowed to fight because he hadn't graduated from the academy yet. Bolren, however, was conscripted into the Anachreon's forces to defend the city. The battle is now known as the Sacking of Wicksbend. While Bolren survived the battle, he was captured by the Vidanya when they took the city. He and all of the other surviving soldiers were hung from the academy walls as part of the Vidanya's desecration of the academy.

The Vidanya were rounding up any remaining mages in the city, mostly apprentices that hadn't been fighting, so the Daeclan family helped Hazelmere escape the city along with Lamara and Ronald. They went north up the [[Odera River]] to [[Mazrunas]]. Lamara and Hazelmere wanted to go to [[Tirnavis]], but Zemvalda was refusing and refugees from the Anachreon at part of a treaty with the Vidanya. Lamara stayed in Mazrunas while Hazelmere headed west with Ronald to the Arcaneum.

Normally the Arcaneum only accepts people that had completed 10 years of academy study. However, Ronald was able to convince an administrator to enroll him and Hazelmere, thanks to their extenuating circumstances and the weight of the Daeclan family name. Hazelmere began his studies at the Arcaneum at the age of 20. There, he was reunited with his old mentor Professor Skjoldson. Hazelmere asked to resume his apprenticeship, but Professor Skjoldson refused for lack of time, so Hazelmere ended up apprenticed to [[Aetheleron|Professor Aetheleron]].

Two years prior to Hazelmere's entry into the Arcaneum, the Anachreon had discovered ancient ruins in the city of [[Fiedorek]]. The Arcaneum finally organized an excavation project a year after Hazelmere's arrival and Aetheleron was chosen to lead the digsite. As one of Aetheleron's apprentices, Hazelmere joined Aetheleron in the many trips he took out to the research site in the six years it was active. He was also heavily involved in dating, categorizing, and studying the various artifacts they dug up. It was as part of this that Hazelmere found the first reference to the term [[Izuri Gate System|"gate"]] in an ancient Skjoldhelm record. Soon after, the research team discovered the remains of an ancient gate made of an unknown material, later named [[Fiedorum|fiedorum]].